>> Brian Holt: So we're gonna kinda
start grouping things together, right?
That kinda makes sense.
Like if you have information about your
user about of your website, right,
you're gonna wanna group together
their email and their, I don't know.
First name and last name and location,
that kinda stuff together, right?
And so something like an object
is really useful for that, right?
An object can be thought of just like
a bag of a bunch of variables, right?
You're just kinda like
putting them together.
So another one, it's a collection of data.
So here I've described a person,
Brian that loves tacos is true.
Guess who was when in doubt about that,
I do love tacos.
What's tacos right now.
I think I was hungry when
I wrote this part, too.
So first off, taco wanted, that's sad.
Okay, so if you say,
console.logperson, right,
person is what persons and object and
you can tell it's an object,
because of these curly braces, right,
and just notice that's key and value.
So the key is the name, right?
So if I ask for what is the name of this
person, you'll get back Brian Holt, hence,
right here.
Console.log.person.name, right?
You're asking for the name property and
property is just another word for
variable inside of an object.
So console.logperson.name and you can
also do it with this notation here.
Let's make this a little bit bigger.
On line 11 here that I can ask for
it with,
these are the square brackets and
quotes here.
So this does work.
However, just so you know, this,
the line tennis preferred syntax for that.
So typically, you won't do it this way.
You'll do it this way look like
we do it online, tap here.
So.
>> Brian Holt: And then you can see here,
the console.logperson gives
me the whole object here.
And then person.name here
it gives us Brian Holt and
person with the square brackets also
gives you back Brian Holt right there.
>> Brian Holt: So we use objects
everywhere and all the time.
So these are something that
you'll get very used to using.
>> Brian Holt: Yep, keys and values.
So something that's good
to note about this is that
a person can only have one name property,
right?
So these keys have to be
unique per object, right?
So I can't just have another name
underneath here, if something else.
>> Brian Holt: So actually,
I guess it's technically valid JavaScript,
but look that I over wrote Brian Holt,
right?
Now you can't see that here in the object,
So every object has a,
each key has to be unique per object.
However, the values don't have to be.
So if I put like favoriteCity or
something like that and
I tried to put Seattle here,
that's fine, right?
The values don't have to be unique.
So I can have Seattle in here twice and
that's fine.
It's just that you can have
the keys in there twice.
Does it make sense, yeah?
>> Speaker 2: You have
multiple favorite cities?
>> Brian Holt: You can and
I'll show you how in just a second, okay?
Cool, so
using a conjunction with functions,
you can do some pretty powerful
stuff with objects, right?
So I have this function
here called suggest
music that takes in a person object,
right?
And so I pass in person one, which is me.
And if the person's age range is 25 to 35,
it says,
we think you will like Daft Punk
you crazy millennial which is true.
I do like Daft Punk and then Jack who
is my dad in case you're wondering,
and he does like Johnny Cash.
It says, otherwise, maybe or it says,
you're gonna like Johnny Cash.
Otherwise, I think everyone
likes David Bowie, right?
I guess we're in Minneapolis.
I should've put Prince there, right?
Yeah, my bad.
>> Brian Holt: But I feel like
David Bowie's okay, too, right?
So and then you look down here, it's you
can see that it's logs out at Punk, right?
And then Johnny Cash, right?
So I think that's pretty cool is that you
can pass on these objects and you can
kinda create these flexible functions
around having these objects passed it.
Does it make sense?
>> Brian Holt: Cool.
>> Brian Holt: Now we can get
even a little bit fancier and
objects can have their own functions and
this is called a method,
but it's just a function.
I constantly call these methods which is
why I'm prepping you that I'm probably
soon hereafter going to
call that a method, but
a method is just a function
that's on an object basically.
>> Brian Holt: So I have a dog object
here, right, with the curly brace.
It's also good to note that there is a
comma here after all these properties and
there has been like if you go up here.
Most all these have commas after.
That is required.
This last one on line eight does
not have a comma, but you can.
It's optional.
That is up to you.
So going back down here to the the dog
object, so its name is dog.
And then it has a speak function here,
right?
So now, so
I can call here dog.speak, right?
And then you can see down here
that it runs that function.
>> Brian Holt: Make sense?
So this is the shorthand
way of writing functions.
It's the newer way of writing
functions and objects.
This is actually just shorthand for this.
>> Brian Holt: Just so you know.
So if you're like seeing people's older
code, it's probably gonna look like that.
>> Brian Holt: But yeah,
feel free to just do that.
I'm lazy.
So I wanna have as few
keystrokes as possible.
>> Brian Holt: And I mean,
this is just a normal function
that can take in some parameter.
>> Brian Holt: And some parameter.
>> Brian Holt: It's a dog that's laughing,
I suppose.
[LAUGH] Questions?
>> Brian Holt: Good so far, okay?
>> Brian Holt: Objects can have
objects inside of them, right,
and those objects can have
objects inside of them.
There's no limit there.
You can nest objects infinitely, right?
So I have me and then I have a name
object which has a first, and last.
And then I have a location which
has a city, state and country.
So if I console.log(me), right,
it'll log that whole thing out.
Or if I come in here and say,
console.log(me.name.first),
that's how you can access
deeply nested objects, right?
Logs that out right there.
>> Speaker 3: Question.
>> Brian Holt: Yeah.
>> Speaker 3: So I'm used to thinking
of these or calling these like,
data structures.
Is there a difference between
an object and a data structure?
Maybe it's like an abstraction thing,
but is this?
Like does does JavaScript have
something called data structures that
are separate or
is this just the same thing?
>> Brian Holt: The answer to your question
is that a object is a data structure.
>> Speaker 3: Okay.
>> Brian Holt: There are.
>> Brian Holt: In the sense of like,
there's not gonna be like any hash
tables or anything like that.
This is the only way of accomplishing
objects in different languages.
They're gonna have different
implementations of objects basically and
you choose the best one based on what
kind of performance profile you want.
Like you want this to be really small in
memory, but you want it to go really fast.
Or it's like you want it to be slow, but
you want it to be really small in memory,
right?
There's kind of those
tradeoffs that you make.
JavaScript doesn't have any of that stuff.
It's just objects.
>> Speaker 3: Okay.
>> Brian Holt: That's a good question.
>> Speaker 4: Does that mean that
an array is a data structure also?
>> Brian Holt: It is.
Yep, we are about to
talk about those as well.
But yeah, it is.
>> Speaker 4: And I don't think you ever
mentioned, but undefined in the console,
the result portion that's just normal for
results in a console in it?
>> Brian Holt: It's an artifact of
how this particular thing that I'm
using works.
So it's whatever is
returned on the last line.
So if I just put like five here,
it's gonna put five there.
>> Brian Holt: So it's as if there was
an implicit return statement here and
it's logging out whatever is
returned on that last line.
So console.log returns undefined,
that's why.
>> Brian Holt: In fact,
that's probably worth mentioning.
Now that you've seen the syntax,
right, me.name.first and
then you see console.log here,
we saw dog.speak,
console is an object and
log is a function on console, right?